Brief Write up on Crytographic hashing:

1. In cryptography, Hash functions are used to convert variable length inputs to fixed length output.
2. Output are called Message digest or Hash Values.
3. Hash Functions that output n-bit output are called n-bit hash Functions. Popular ones generate between 160 to 512 bits.
4. Properties of Good Hash Function:
  a. Pre-image Resistance: Given a hash value it should be very hard to find orignal input value.
  b. Second Pre-image Resistance: Given a hash and input, it shold be hard to find another input with same hash.
  c. Collision Resistance: Hard to find two input x and y such that h(x) = h(y).
5. Hashing algorithms involves rounds of computing hash values generally hash output of last round and next block from data as input.
6. Initially, hash function takes a seed value from user and first block of data to comput a hash value.
7. In next round, hash values computed above is used wiith next block of data to comupute hash value.
8. This process goes on this completee data is hashed.
9. Avalanche Effect: Due to process explained abovee, hash values for data that just differ by a bit is significantly different.
10. Some popular cryptographic hash function examples are:
  a. Message Digest (MD) - MD2, MD4, MD5, MD6
  b. Secure Hash Functions (SHA) - SHA0, SHA1, SHA2, SHA3
  c. Other examples are RIPEND and Whirlpool
11. Some of the applications of cryptographic hashing is:
  a. Password Storage: Saving a password directly is very vulnerable to attacks, so password is first encrypted using cryptographic 
                       hashing and then stored. When any user enters id and password to log in, system compares hash value of entered
                       password with stored hash value to check if password is correct.
  b. Data integrity Check: When a data file is shared over network, hash functions are used to find checksums of recieved and sent file
                           to ensure that file is authentic and no data is lost.
